The point of my presentation is that the idea of a browser "holding back the progress of the web" is based on several lies that we as developers have accepted as truth. And that buying into those lies is actually what is holding back the web.

In fact, by buying into these lies, devs end up blaming/annoying/confusing the USERS for the sins of the browser, with all these ridiculous and insulting ploys like redirecting users away if they're in an "inferior browser", etc. THAT sort of technique is 1000000% harmful for the web. THAT is what makes users hate developers (and they do).

Lie #1: browser versions matter. In truth, they're arbitrary marketing labels, so making your code assume the browser works a certain way based on the browser version is a terrible hack and leads to all kinds of extra work and effort, which is in large part why people struggle so much with these issues.

\*\* Solution: use feature detection. Only. Develop to standards, and feature-test for them. DO NOT use polyfills or shims or hacks to get stuff working in an older browser that wasn't ever intended to work. THAT's where all your extra work comes from. Which leads us into...

Lie #2: your site/app has to look/feel/act/behave the same, or even substantially the same, in all browsers/versions. In truth, users on IE6 already experience a terribly reduced web experience on a daily basis. There's no chance they're going to come to your site, and all of a sudden be like "OMG, I simply cannot tolerate the fact that this guy doesn't have rounded corners for me. Eff this site, I'm not buying here." That is exactly the kind of ludicrous reasoning that people use to justify why they spend so much extra (wasted) effort trying to develop insane polyfill workarounds for old browsers.

\*\* Solution: simply let browsers that are older or less capable "fail" to be the same. Let your app have less features available in IE6. Let the CSS be screwed up so there's extra padding where it "shouldn't" be. Let the video player just not show up. Let the select-box show up through a modal even though it shouldn't. Stop getting so up in arms about web sites/apps having a gradation of failure as you go further back in browser technology. Feature test for what you need, and hide stuff if the feature-test doesn't pass. And get on with your life.

But... you say, what about all the users that will disenfranchise, which brings us to…

Lie #3: every user matters. This is hogwash. No one seriously tests their sites in Netscape 4.7, yet some crazy users still use it (and worse). You are implicitly telling THEM that they don't matter, when your site is broken for them. So why is a user in IE6 more important to you than in Netscape 4.7? You've made an arbirtary and indefensible judgement call that automatically says some users matter more than others. So I'm just taking the next step, and saying that the only users who matter are those who have a capable enough browser to see what you provide. If you can't provide your content/functionality to enough users without hacking for older browsers, or blaming my grandma and insulting her for not upgrading, then you suck at this industry and should find another job,. Oh, you say it's because of marketshare? That's more hogwash. That's a failed (or failing) business model which says that IE6 users are the key to your success or failure.

Solution: Develop to standards, make reasonable attempts, also using standards, to provide workarounds when the latest and greatest tech isn't available (because you feature-tested), and be helpful and informative when you have to hide some important feature for a user. DO NOT insult them. Just say "the video player isn't available in your browser. Here's a download link to the video instead." That's not just splitting hairs, that's a DRASTICALLY different approach to handling users on less-than-capable browsers. It frees you as the dev up to spend the majority of your time on the tech that matters, and it cushions the blow to users who haven't (or can't) kept up with the progress of the modern web.

NOTE: never ever, under any circumstances, block an entire site. Simply let it fail. In the worst case browsers, just dump the plain content (no behavior or styling at all), and let the user consume it even in its raw and less than polished form. Let the user have a chance to get something, even a little morsel, of usefulness, out of your site, instead of you insulting them by telling them they can't possibly get anything out of it.

Have a web-gl based game as the only content of your site? Why not just provide nice screenshots of the game with some text describing how great the game is. THAT would be far more useful, and FAR more respectful, of the user, than "Sorry, you and your browser both suck. Get a life."

---

Bottom line: how do we combat all these lies, when our clients and bosses and marketing departments all still believe them? We have to push back on them, little by little, and retrain them from the ground up, about how our industry and how the technology that drives it actually works. It's OUR responsibility to push back. We have to fix it. We can't just keep blaming and insulting the users. That's a failed strategy and 10 years of trying to "IE6 Must Die" the world into submission is proof that it will never be anything more than a failed strategy.
