>(Ricardo Cabello) I don't think I agree. I think having a message telling the user what to do to see the content properly is better than having a broken page with the content all over the page or just no content at all because IE doesn't support "addEventListener".


Your message is trying to tell my grandma that she needs to upgrade her browser to see your content. What do you think grandma's reaction is going to be?

It's almost certainly not going to be "Oh my goodness, thank you so much, you super helpful website, for helping me see the error of my ways. I will go and read some reviews and decide which of the several modern browsers are out there, and upgrade right away. What a helpful young man you have been. Thank you!"

In reality, you will confuse and frustrate her, and further remind her that this internet you've created is not for her. You'll implicitly tell her that the web you're creating is for a more sophisticated and capable crowd, and that she should just go back to reading emails from her grandkids.

My approach, on the other hand, would let grandma see whatever it was that was possible to be seen, and she probably wouldn't even notice that the fancy stuff wasn't there. She certainly is not going to think "This site is so pathetic for providing me a download link for a video instead of just putting in some archaic flash-player fallback video player". In reality, she'll click the link, and the video will probably play for her, and she'll be just as happy and none the wiser.

You won't have had to spend any extra effort giving her that link, and she won't have had to spend any extra effort to see the video she wanted. And no one will feel confused or insulted or betrayed by the web they thought they could enjoy when they bought this computer from BestBuy 7 years ago.﻿