Furthermore, what I think you fail to realize is, that by this time, if there are still people using old and busted browsers, they are not doing so because there's not been just one more website being super helpful and putting up some insulting message of browser inferiority.

They are still using old browsers because 1) they don't care if the web is a bit "broken" for them. 2) they can't upgrade for some reason (maybe driven by their company). 3) they don't understand what a browser is anyway.

In all 3 of those cases, which I'm positive constitute well over 99% of the people on old browsers, your messaging is COMPLETELY unhelpful. It's a slap in the face to someone who doesn't even fully understand why you're slapping them in the face.

And furthermore, it's driven by self-righteous indignation on the part of web developers, that it's our job to alienate the slow adopters on the web and make them feel bad, so we come up with ever more creative ways to say "fuck you" to them, for no other reason than that they CHOSE to view the web in a way that you just don't like.

What happened to free choice? Why shouldn't it be grandma's choice to view your web site using whatever damned browser she wants? Why shouldn't she get to say I'd like just the text please, leave all that other crap away. I just want my magnifying glass to make the text bigger so I can read it. I don't need fancy colors or rounded corners or drop down menus.

What's holding this web back is that talented people like you spend all your time completely obsessed with this completely wasted effort. I wish you'd join those of us who spend our time focused on the future and not the past. We'd get a whole lot more accomplished with your help than with your actively trying to make the web an unfriendlier place for the less fortunate of its audience.﻿