JavaScript does not have "inheritance" or "prototypal inheritance" or "classes" or any of that jazz... what you've been told, and how you've been taught about it, are a misunderstanding... all this nonsense about constructor functions and `new` and such... that's all hogwash... well, it's all unnecessary effort, at best.

"Instead... only try to realize the truth... there is no spoon."

What JavaScript **does** have is "behavior delegation"... and object linking through the "prototype chain"... you merely link two **instances** of objects together, say `Foo` and `Baz`, and say that `Baz` "delegates" to `Foo` for any behavior that `Baz` doesn't own itself but that `Foo` does own. And thus, any object `b` (aka, "b is an instance of Baz" in the more confusing terminology) which is linked to `Baz`, delegates first to `Baz`, and then to `Foo`, for behavior.

That's it. Seriously. And function constructors and `new` and all that stuff, everything you've read before about OO in JS, they're just distractions that lead you to the wrong mental model. And so is the new `class` cruft (aka "sugar") that's coming in ES6. What's *actually* useful is the semantics of `Object.create()` actually exposing how this stuff **really** works.

See what I mean below, comparing "2.js" (the old school and more confusing way) and "3.js" (the cleaner and "object linking and behavior delegation" way). They both do the same thing. But the latter actually says what it means, while the former masquerades as something it's not.